h1. Sinatra-REST

Actually it's a set of templates to introduce RESTful routes in Sinatra. The 
only thing for you to do is to provide the views. The routes and some 
url helpers will be provided behind the scenes.


h2. Installation

Guess what!

    sudo gem source --add http://gems.github.com
    sudo gem install blindgaenger-sinatra-rest


h2. Usage

Of course you need to require the gem in your Sinatra application:

    require 'rubygems'
    require 'sinatra'
    require 'sinatra/rest'

It's very similar to defining routes in Sinatra (@get@, @post@, ...). But this 
time you don't define the routes by yourself, but use the model's name for 
convention.

For example, if the model's class is called @Person@ you only need to add this 
line:

    rest Person

Which will add the following RESTful routes to your application. (Note the 
pluralization of @Person@ to the @/people/*@ routes.)

* GET    /people
* GET    /people/new
* POST   /people
* GET    /people/:id
* GET    /people/:id/edit
* PUT    /people/:id
* DELETE /people/:id

But the real benefit is, that these *routes define a restful standard behaviour* 
on your model, *appropriate routing and redirecting* and *named url helpers*. 

For instance, you can imagine the following code to be added for the @/people@ 
and @/people/:id@ routes.

<pre><code>
# simply add this line

rest Person, :renderer => :erb

# and this is generated for you

get '/people' do
  @people = Person.all
  erb :"people/index", options
end

put '/people/:id' do
  @person = Person.find_by_id(params[:id])
  redirect url_for_people_show(@person), 'person updated'
end

# further restful routes for Person ...
</code></pre>

That's only half the truth! The routes are generated dynamically, so all 
defaults can be overridden (the behaviour, after/before callbacks, used renderer, 
which routes are added).

For more details and options, please have a look at the pages in the  
"Sinatra-REST Wiki":http://github.com/blindgaenger/sinatra-rest/wikis on Github.

h2. Links

* "Homepage @ GitHub Pages":http://blindgaenger.github.com/sinatra-rest/
* "Source Code @ GitHub":http://blindgaenger.github.com/sinatra-rest/
* "Documentation @ rdoc.info":http://rdoc.info/projects/blindgaenger/sinatra-rest
* "Continuous Integration @ RunCodeRun":http://runcoderun.com/blindgaenger/sinatra-rest
* "Gem hosting @ Gemcutter":http://gemcutter.org/gems/sinatra-rest

h2. Contact

You can contact me via mail at blindgaenger at gmail dot com, or leave me a 
message on my "Github profile":http://github.com/blindgaenger.

